What Is Tor and Why Should I Use It?
Tor is one of the easiest ways to browse the web anonymously. But now that we’ve said the “a” word,
we need to put a big ol’ asterisk next to it, because using Tor to conceal your online activities
comes with a bunch of caveats. Let’s take a look at what Tor does, who uses it, and most importantly,
what Tor won’t do if you’re looking to hide online.
How Tor works
Tor is short for The Onion Router (thus the logo) and was initially a worldwide network of servers
developed with the U.S. Navy that enabled people to browse the internet anonymously. Now, it’s a
non-profit organization whose main purpose is the research and development of online privacy tools.
What attacks remain against onion routing?
As mentioned above, it is possible for an observer who can view both you and either the destination
website or your Tor exit node to correlate timings of your traffic as it enters the Tor network and
also as it exits. Tor does not defend against such a threat model. In a more limited sense, note that
if a censor or law enforcement agency has the ability to obtain specific observation of parts of the
network, it is possible for them to verify a suspicion that you talk regularly to your friend by
observing traffic at both ends and correlating the timing of only that traffic. Again, this is only
useful to verify that parties already suspected of communicating with one another are doing so.
In most countries, the suspicion required to obtain a warrant already carries more weight than timing
correlation would provide. Furthermore, since Tor reuses circuits for multiple TCP connections, it is
possible to associate non-anonymous and anonymous traffic at a given exit node, so be careful about
what applications you run concurrently over Tor. Perhaps even run separate Tor clients for these applications.
What protections does Tor provide?
Internet communication is based on a store-and-forward model that can be understood in analogy to
postal mail: Data is transmitted in blocks called IP datagrams or packets. Every packet includes
a source IP address (of the sender) and a destination IP address (of the receiver), just as ordinary
letters contain postal addresses of sender and receiver. The way from sender to receiver involves
multiple hops of routers, where each router inspects the destination IP address and forwards the packet
closer to its destination. Thus, every router between sender and receiver learns that the sender is
communicating with the receiver. In particular, your local ISP is in the position to build a complete
profile of your Internet usage. In addition, every server in the Internet that can see any of the
packets can profile your behavior.

The aim of Tor is to improve your privacy by sending your traffic through a series of proxies.
Your communication is encrypted in multiple layers and routed via multiple hops through the Tor
network to the final receiver. More details on this process can be found in this visualization.
Note that all your local ISP can observe now is that you are communicating with Tor nodes. Similarly,
servers in the Internet just see that they are being contacted by Tor nodes. Generally speaking,
Tor aims to solve three privacy problems:
First, Tor prevents websites and other services from learning your location, which they can use to
build databases about your habits and interests. With Tor, your Internet connections don't give you
away by default -- now you can have the ability to choose, for each connection, how much information
to reveal.
Second, Tor prevents people watching your traffic locally (such as your ISP or someone with access
to your home wi-fi or router) from learning what information you're fetching and where you're fetching
it from. It also stops them from deciding what you're allowed to learn and publish -- if you can get to
any part of the Tor network, you can reach any site on the Internet.
Third, Tor routes your connection through more than one Tor relay so no single relay can learn what
you're up to. Because these relays are run by different individuals or organizations, distributing
trust provides more security than the old one hop proxy approach. Note, however, that there are
situations where Tor fails to solve these privacy problems entirely: see the entry below on remaining
attacks.
Why is it called Tor?
Tor is the onion routing network. When we were starting the new next-generation design and implementation
of onion routing in 2001-2002, we would tell people we were working on onion routing, and they would
say "Neat. Which one?" Even if onion routing has become a standard household term, Tor was born out
of the actual onion routing project run by the Naval Research Lab.(It's also got a fine meaning in German and Turkish.)
Note: even though it originally came from an acronym, Tor is not spelled "TOR". Only the first letter
is capitalized. In fact, we can usually spot people who haven't read any of our website
(and have instead learned everything they know about Tor from news articles) by the fact that they
spell it wrong.
Does Tor remove personal information from the data my application sends?
No, it doesn't. You need to use a separate program that understands your application and protocol
and knows how to clean or "scrub" the data it sends. Tor Browser tries to keep application-level data,
like the user-agent string, uniform for all users. Tor Browser can't do anything about the text that
you type into forms, though.
How is Tor different from other proxies?
A typical proxy provider sets up a server somewhere on the Internet and allows you to use it to relay
your traffic. This creates a simple, easy to maintain architecture. The users all enter and leave
through the same server. The provider may charge for use of the proxy, or fund their costs through
advertisements on the server. In the simplest configuration, you don't have to install anything.
You just have to point your browser at their proxy server. Simple proxy providers are fine solutions
if you do not want protections for your privacy and anonymity online and you trust the provider to not
do bad things. Some simple proxy providers use SSL to secure your connection to them, which protects
you against local eavesdroppers, such as those at a cafe with free wi-fi Internet.
Simple proxy providers also create a single point of failure. The provider knows both who you are
and what you browse on the Internet. They can see your traffic as it passes through their server.
In some cases, they can even see inside your encrypted traffic as they relay it to your banking site
or to ecommerce stores. You have to trust the provider isn't watching your traffic, injecting their
own advertisements into your traffic stream, or recording your personal details.

Tor passes your traffic through at least 3 different servers before sending it on to the destination.
Because there's a separate layer of encryption for each of the three relays, somebody watching your
Internet connection can't modify, or read, what you are sending into the Tor network. Your traffic is
encrypted between the Tor client (on your computer) and where it pops out somewhere else in the world.
Doesn't the first server see who I am?
Possibly. A bad first of three servers can see encrypted Tor traffic coming from your computer.
It still doesn't know who you are and what you are doing over Tor. It merely sees "This IP address
is using Tor". You are still protected from this node figuring out both who you are and where you are
going on the Internet.
Can't the third server see my traffic?
Possibly. A bad third of three servers can see the traffic you sent into Tor. It won't know who sent
this traffic. If you're using encryption (like HTTPS), it will only know the destination. See this
visualization of Tor and HTTPS to understand how Tor and HTTPS interact.
Can I distribute Tor?
Yes.
The Tor software is free software. This means we give you the rights to redistribute the Tor software,
either modified or unmodified, either for a fee or gratis. You don't have to ask us for specific
permission.
However, if you want to redistribute the Tor software you must follow our LICENSE. Essentially
this means that you need to include our LICENSE file along with whatever part of the Tor software
you're distributing.
Most people who ask us this question don't want to distribute just the Tor software, though.
They want to distribute the Tor Browser. This includes Firefox Extended Support Release and the
NoScript extension. You will need to follow the license for those programs as well. Both of those
Firefox extensions are distributed under the GNU General Public License, while Firefox ESR is released
under the Mozilla Public License. The simplest way to obey their licenses is to include the source
code for these programs everywhere you include the bundles themselves.
Also, you should make sure not to confuse your readers about what Tor is, who makes it, and what
properties it provides (and doesn't provide). See our trademark FAQ for details.

